# The Art Of Impossible - Steven Kotler
This is a non fiction book. That tries to explain the concept of [[Flow]] and how to get and preserve it from a neurological standpoint. It expand through a lot of thing spanning from [[Skill Acquisiton|skill acquisition]], [[Knowledge acquisition|knowledge acquisition]], creativity training and many other themes.  It demystifies the [[10,000 hour rule]] by saying that this rule can't be applied to every subject and this is way to much if we take into account flow. And the end it summarizes by proposing a list of activities to achieve for our mission in life as *Clear goals* which are:

> ### DAILY 
> - Ninety to 120 minutes of uninterrupted concentration. Spend this time on your most important task—the one that will produce the biggest victory, the one that, once completed, will leave you feeling like you won your day. Also, try to apply one strength in a new way while inside of this 90- to 120-minute block (which allows you to fold strength training into your daily activity). And be sure to push yourself during that activity, so that you’re a little outside your comfort zone and always sitting inside the challenge-skills sweet spot. Over time, this constant pushing on yourself and your skills will result in both an astounding amount of grit and, even better, the habit of ferocity. 
> - Five minutes for distraction management. Place these minutes at the end of your workday to prepare for the next day’s uninterrupted concentration period. Turn off everything that regularly breaks your focus: messages, alerts, email, social media, cell phone ringers, the works. 
> - Five minutes for making a clear-goals list—also usually at the end of a workday to prepare for the next day’s uninterrupted concentration period. Remember, order tasks from the most difficult (and most rewarding) to the least. Also, don’t just put “work tasks” on your clear goals list. Write down everything you want to do in a day, including things like workouts and active recovery periods (that is, “go to the gym” or “take a hot bath” or “practice mindfulness for twenty minutes”) on your list. Finally, always check off all the items on the list. This is the one rule you cannot violate. If it goes on the list, you accomplish it during the day. The only exception being those rare occasions when you missed the challenge-skills sweet spot and the task you’re trying to do is just too hard. Then chunk it down, accomplish what you can today, and bump the rest onto tomorrow’s list. 
> - Five minutes for a daily gratitude practice. 
> - Twenty minutes for release and/or twenty minutes for mindfulness. You can go longer, but this appears to be the minimum time frame needed to start getting results. Remember to preload the release phase with the MacGyver method, so your brain can problem solve while you take a break from the problem-solving. 
> - Twenty-five minutes to load the pattern recognition system (reading outside your core area). Remember, the ROI on reading says books are the best way to go. If you’re trying to master a skill rather than learn new information, these twenty-five minutes can also be spent 80/20’ing that skill. Also, those twenty-five minutes are an estimate. What you’re aiming for is a minimum of about twenty-five pages’ worth of reading. 
> - Seven to eight hours of sleep a night.
> ### WEEKLY 
> - Two to six hours, one or two times a week: highest-flow activity (skiing, dancing, singing, whatever). These are the activities that often get edited out of our lives as responsibilities pile up and schedules get crowded. But the more flow you get, the more flow you get. It’s a focusing skill. So spending extra time in an activity that is all but guaranteed to produce flow will help maximize flow in activities that aren’t quite as flowy. During this activity, try to deploy as many flow triggers as you can. Always push on the challenge-skills sweet spot. Be creative. Take risks. Seek out novelty, complexity, and unpredictability. Also, try to use these sessions to train grit, and to use one or more of your core strengths in a new way. 
> - Sixty minutes, three times a week: regular exercise. Be sure to push yourself during these sessions. The same challenge-skills balance rules apply. If you’re outside your comfort zone, then exercise is a great way to cross-train grit while resetting the nervous system. Also, for reasons that have to do with how exercise impacts brain function, aim for exercises that are cognitively challenging—meaning run outdoors on a trail (so the brain has to do route finding and spatial mapping and such) rather than indoors on a treadmill. 
> - Twenty to forty minutes, three times a week: active recovery (sauna, massage, long mindfulness session, light yoga, and so on). 
> - Thirty to sixty minutes, one time a week: train a weakness and/or train being your best when at your worst and/or practice taking risks. 
> - Thirty to sixty minutes, one time a week: get feedback on the work you’ve been doing during those 90- to 120-minute periods of uninterrupted concentration. 
> - One hundred and twenty minutes a week: social support. Make time for other people, especially if you’re an introvert. Having loving, supportive people in our lives and being a loving, supportive person ourselves helps keep us calm and happy, but it also helps us be psychologically prepared to attack the challenge-skills sweet spot. Plus, it gives us a place to practice our emotional intelligence skills
> ### STACKING PRACTICES 
> - Use your three-times-a-week exercise sessions as a place to train grit. This is a great place to work on perseverance, but you can always triple-stack and use this session to train up a weakness and, if you exhaust yourself during the workout and still want to give a little extra, you can also train the grit to be your best when you’re at your worst. 
> - Use a few of your active recovery periods—a.k.a. the sauna and bath —to also practice mindfulness and/or to load the pattern recognition system. When loading the pattern recognition system, try to make books your primary information source, as you can’t match their data density with any other material. 
> - Use the MacGyver method before you enter your release practice. That way, the practice does double duty. 
> - While you’re still working your way through the passion recipe, use the need to play at the intersections of curiosities as a time to load up the pattern recognition system with the information it needs to find connections between ideas. 
> - Always layer flow triggers into every activity. Make novelty, complexity, and unpredictability your good friends. Make sure the items on your clear-goals list sit in that challenge-skills sweet spot. Find a feedback buddy. Practice taking safe risks. Repeat. 
> - When you’re devoting 120 minutes a week to social support, use this period to train up EQ and to practice with group flow’s triggers. 
> - Creativity and the pursuit of mastery should be built into everything you do.

Overall a pretty good book that teaches a lot, worth re-reading it for a more careful analysis.

## Rating: 10/10