# Your Brain Is Playing Trick On You - Albert Moukheiber

This is a non fiction book. It explains how there are misconception generated by our brain instead of the knowledge that we have. Talks how stress is a deterrent from thinking and how this is an old fashion trait that we have from evolution (dealing with physical threats made us develop a fight or flight response, thus stress; but in current day we have more psychological threats than physical), it has a take on the [[Dunning-Kruger Effect]] and on the [[Impostor Syndrome]] as well as saying that the  [[System 1 thinking]] and [[System 2 thinking]] way of seeing the brain is a *less-incorrect* or an abstraction of the way our brain works.

> Knowing how to doubt our thoughts, our emotions and our intuitions when it is necessary leads us to see the world in all of its nuances and its complexity again, and to free ourselves from tunnel vision. By taking a step back from our convictions, by saving ourselves from adopting a black-and-white vision of people and situations, we offer ourselves a chance to reconnect. Let's all accept to make this effort, so we can mend our social fabric together, resume dialogue, and once again share the same world.

This quote summarizes the book, it seeks to find a way to detect the fault on our brains to pick the common misconceptions of the everyday man. Analyses the way our perception of the world can affect others and how to use it to create a better world. Overall a good book.

## Rating: 8/10